The 2024 ICC Men's T20 World Cup was the ninth edition of the ICC Men's T20 World Cup. It was co-hosted by the West Indies and the United States from 1 to 29 June 2024; the tournament being hosted by the West Indies for the second time, while this was also the first major ICC tournament to feature matches played in the United States.

The tournament field expanded from 16 to 20 teams, including the two hosts, the top eight teams from the 2022 edition, the best placed two teams in the ICC Men's T20I Team Rankings not already qualified, and eight other teams determined by regional qualifiers. Canada and Uganda qualified for the men's T20 World Cup for the first time, while the United States participated for the first time by virtue of being co-hosts.

England were the defending champions and were beaten in the semi-finals by India, who went on to win their second T20 World Cup title, defeating South Africa by 7 runs and equalling England and West Indies with the most titles in T20 World Cup.

Background
The ICC Men's T20 World Cup is a professional T20I tournament held between men's national cricket teams, organized by the International Cricket Council (ICC). The tournament, now being held every two years, was first played in 2007 in South Africa. The last tournament held in 2022 in Australia was contested by 16 teams. The defending champions were England, who defeated Pakistan in the final of the previous edition.

Host selection
In November 2021, the ICC announced that the 2024 Men's T20 World Cup would be played in the United States and the West Indies. A joint bid was submitted by Cricket West Indies and USA Cricket following two years of preparation, forming part of a strategic partnership between the two associations.

USA Cricket's co-hosting was part of efforts to help develop and promote cricket in the United States, where the sport's fanbase is primarily made up of South Asian Americans. Prior to this World Cup, the United States had occasionally hosted West Indies home matches at Central Broward Park in Florida, while a T20 franchise league known as Major League Cricket launched in 2023.

Although cricket had never become mainstream in the country, the United States is associated with several notable developments in the early history of the game, including having hosted Canada in the first international cricket match, and American cricketer Bart King having been credited with developing the technique of swing bowling.

Format
The 20 qualifying teams were divided into four groups of five teams; all the five teams in a group played with all the others – for a total of ten matches – and the top two teams in each group advanced to the Super 8 stage. The advanced 8 teams were divided into two groups of four teams each based on pre-tournament seedings; all the advanced teams in an advanced group played with all the others in that group – for a total of six matches – and the top two teams in each advanced group advanced to a four-team semi-final or knockout stage. Prior to the tournament, the ICC announced the eight seeded teams for the Super 8 stage based on T20I rankings. On advancing from the group stage, they were placed in pre-determined positions in the Super 8 stage, irrespective of their position in the group stage. If an unseeded team qualified at the expense of a seeded team, it took the position of the corresponding seeded team that failed to qualify from the group.

Schedule
On 28 July 2023, ICC announced that the tournament will be played from 4 to 30 June 2024. The revised schedule was announced on 5 January 2024, with the tournament scheduled to take place from 1 to 29 June. The teams would play 55 matches with three cities in the United States hosting 12 matches and the rest of the matches hosted by six venues in the Caribbean. On 16 May 2024, ICC announced that warm-up fixtures will be held from 27 May to 1 June.

Prize money
The ICC allocated a pool of US$11.25 million in prize money for the tournament. The winners will earn at least $2.45 million, the highest prize money in the history of the tournament. In addition, each team will receive an additional $31,154 for each match they win excluding the semi-finals and final.

Marketing
The ICC hosted a "trophy tour" before the tournament which began on 19 March in New York and the trophy was taken to various locations around the world. Former cricketers Yuvraj Singh, Chris Gayle, and Shahid Afridi as well as Olympian athlete Usain Bolt were named as the ambassadors of the tournament.

Venues
In May 2023, Cricket West Indies (CWI) began a bidding process for countries in the Caribbean region willing to host the matches of the World Cup. In July 2023, the ICC shortlisted four venues in the United States, Central Broward Park in Lauderhill, Florida, Church Street Park in Morrisville, North Carolina, Grand Prairie Stadium in Grand Prairie, Texas, and a temporary stadium at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, New York City for hosting the matches. Residents of the Bronx objected to the Van Cortlandt Park stadium, citing that it would restrict public access to the park for an extended time, showed concerns for its environmental impact, and questioned the economic viability of the event. On 20 September 2023, the ICC announced that Grand Prairie, Lauderhill, and New York would be the three U.S. host cities, with a 34,000-seat temporary stadium to be constructed at Eisenhower Park on Long Island in Nassau County, New York. Central Broward Park and Grand Prairie Stadium were to be expanded, with temporary grandstands and hospitality areas doubling their capacity during the tournament.

On 22 September 2023, ICC announced that venues in Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Guyana, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago would serve as the hosts in the West Indies. Grenada, Jamaica, and Saint Kitts and Nevis did not submit bids to host the World Cup, with Jamaican sports minister Olivia Grange ruling out a bid on cost grounds. In November 2023, it was announced that Trinidad's Queen's Park Oval, the country's most considerable cricket ground, would not be hosting any World Cup matches and that fixtures would be moved to the Brian Lara Cricket Academy in San Fernando. Nigel Camacho, the president of the Queen's Park Cricket Club, stated that the venue would instead most likely host warm-up matches before the start of the main tournament. The Government of Dominica decided to withdraw its venue, Windsor Park, from hosting any matches of the World Cup citing its inability to complete the infrastructural development of the venue before the tournament commences.

In December 2023, a delegation of representatives from the ICC undertook an inspection of the confirmed host venues in the Caribbean and the United States, so as to finalize the fixtures for the tournament. The Long Island stadium was slated to host the India–Pakistan group stage match, considered one of the largest rivalries in the sport. On 17 January 2024, the ICC unveiled the proposed design of the temporary New York stadium—Nassau County International Cricket Stadium—which was completed in May 2024 in time for the tournament. It marked the first temporary venue to have ever been used during an ICC World Cup.

Squads
Main article: 2024 ICC Men's T20 World Cup squads
Each team was allowed to have a squad of 15 players with the provisional squad required to be submitted to the ICC by 1 May 2024. The teams were allowed to make changes to their squads till 25 May 2024.

On 29 April 2024, New Zealand was the first team to announce its squad for the tournament. The following day, Afghanistan, England, India, Oman, and South Africa announced their squads. On 1 May, Australia, and Nepal also announced their squads. Canada announced its squad on 2 May 2024. Hosts West Indies and the United States announced their squads on 3 May 2024. Scotland and Uganda announced their squads on 6 May 2024. Ireland and Papua New Guinea announced their squads on 7 May 2024 and Sri Lanka announced their squad on 9 May 2024. Namibia announced their squad on 10 May 2024 and Netherlands announced their squad on 13 May 2024. Bangladesh announced their squad on 14 May 2024 and Pakistan became the final team to announce their squad for the tournament on 24 May 2024.

Final
Main article: 2024 ICC Men's T20 World Cup final

Virat Kohli (pictured in 2015) scored the most runs for India in the final (76 runs off 59 balls) and was awarded the Player of the match
South Africa, after losing the toss, took three early Indian wickets of skipper Rohit Sharma, Rishabh Pant, and Suryakumar Yadav. However, Virat Kohli and Axar Patel put on a 72-run partnership, with Patel contributing 47 runs. Kohli's 76-run innings and a late contribution of 27 by Shivam Dube helped India reach a total of 176/7, the highest first-innings total in a T20 World Cup final.

South Africa's chase began with the loss of two early wickets, but Quinton de Kock and Tristan Stubbs took the total to 106. After they were both dismissed, Heinrich Klaasen made the fastest fifty in a World Cup final, including scoring 24 runs off the 15th over bowled by Axar Patel. At this point, South Africa required 30 runs in 30 balls with six wickets in hand. However, Arshdeep Singh, Jasprit Bumrah, and Hardik Pandya bowled economically in the last 5 overs. Pandya picked up the wicket of Klaasen in the 17th over, Bumrah dismissed Marco Jansen in the 18th over, and Pandya dismissed David Miller, the last recognized batsman, off the first ball of the final over. The tail end batsmen were unable to overhaul India's total, and South Africa ended their innings on 169/8, losing by 7 runs.

This victory marked India's first ICC title since the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy, their first world cup title since the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup, and their second T20 World Cup crown (the first being the 2007 title). Kohli's knock earned him the Player of the Match award, while Jasprit Bumrah received the Player of the Tournament award. Kohli, Sharma and Jadeja announced their retirement from T20 international format after the final. The end of the tournament also marked the end of Rahul Dravid's tenure as the coach of the Indian cricket team.